# hpcsummarization
Abstract—The HPC ecosystem of applications, compute nodes,
racks, networking fabric, job manager, scheduler, etc. form
a large and complex non-linear system. In such systems,
modeling and understanding the performance and fault tolerance
becomes highly challenging. Researchers, therefore have
turned to the analysis of logs generated by various monitors
(temperature sensors, job tracker, network load etc.) placed
in the HPC system. Since manual analysis is infeasible for
such systems, interest has been towards developing automatic
analyzers of the log data. In this work, we present NSA (Node
Sensor Application) Summarization, a novel summarization
based approach to analyze log output data. Our approach is
parameter-free and creates optimal global summaries using
Minimum Description Length and Dynamic Programming.
We identify a set of applications running on a commodity
cluster, temperature time series and cluster utilization data. We
produce summarizations to correlate application performance
sensitivity, cluster utilization, and temperatures. Experiment
results show that the summaries produced from our algorithms
are meaningful to the HPC system experts. We believe that
this work provides insightful correlations in terms of realistic
workloads and the incorporation of temperature

Code and supplementary material from the IEEE CLUSTER 2017 paper "Analyzing HPC Facilities Monitoring Data via Summarization" by Vanessa Cedeno-Mieles , Sandeep Gupta , Abhinav Bhatele , Nikhil Jain, Alfredo Gimenez.
